Jtesar/chapter1 cli install (#3)
RedHatQuickCourses/rhods-admin: modules/chapter1/pages/section2.adoc

= Installation Using the Command Line Interface

Similarly to the Web Console installation, both *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines* operator and *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Data Science* operators have to be installed.

> == Installation of an operator using CLI

Reviewer: As I understand this particular section, it gives students some context into the installation of operators with the CLI, whereas the other two sections are more focused on Pipelines as RHODS. My suggestion is to treat this section as introductory narrative context, maybe by adjusting the title a bit, and then in the latter two sections, use ordered lists to make these sections more hands-on.

So for example, for this title, I would choose something like this:

```suggestion
== Introduction to CLI-based operator installations
```

Then, in the remaining two sections, I would replace the normal paragraphs with numbered lists, in a much more direct tone (giving instructions to students), for example, for the pipelines operator:

1.  Verify that the Pipelines operator is available in the Red Hat operators catalogue.
```
$ oc get catalogsource ...
```
2. Locate the package manifest
```
$ oc get ...
```
3. Same with the other steps...

Reviewer: You might want to take a look at [this section](https://redhatquickcourses.github.io/rhods-intro/rhods-intro/1.33/chapter3/section1.html) to get an idea of that _narrative +  exercise_ structure.

NAME            CSV                     APPROVAL   APPROVED
install-vpgls   _operator_csv_   Manual     #false#   <1>

$ oc patch installplan install-vpgls --type merge -p '{"spec":{"approved":true}}' -n _operator_namespace_  
installplan.operators.coreos.com/install-vpgls patched  <2>

oc get installplan -n redhat-ods-operator
NAME            CSV                     APPROVAL   APPROVED
install-vpgls   _operator_name_   Manual     #true#  <3>
----
<1> Approval has not been set.
<2> The patch command approves the installation.
<3> Approval has been set and installation starts.
--

== Installation of the Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines Operator

The following command lists available catalog sources.
Pipelines operator is available from Red{nbsp}Hat operators catalogue.

[subs=+quotes]
----
$ oc get catalogsource -n openshift-marketplace     
NAME                  DISPLAY               TYPE   PUBLISHER   AGE
certified-operators   Certified Operators   grpc   Red Hat     24h
community-operators   Community Operators   grpc   Red Hat     24h
redhat-marketplace    Red Hat Marketplace   grpc   Red Hat     24h
#redhat-operators      Red Hat Operators     grpc   Red Hat     24h#
----

> To install the *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines* operator the package manifest must be located.

Reviewer: I'd suggest using a more direct voice here. It might be easier for students to understand.

```suggestion
To install the *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines* operator, locate the `openshift-pipelines-operator-rh` package manifest.
```

[subs=+quotes]
----

> $ oc get packagemanifest 

Reviewer: This is a long list, what if we grep the output? 

```suggestion
$ oc get packagemanifest | grep pipelines
```

..._output omitted_...
flux                                               Red Hat Marketplace   24h 
ack-emrcontainers-controller                       Community Operators   24h 
fujitsu-enterprise-operator                        Certified Operators   24h 
#openshift-pipelines-operator-rh                    Red Hat Operators     24h# 
rhoas-operator                                     Community Operators   24h 
silicom-sts-operator                               Community Operators   24h 
openshiftartifactoryha-operator                    Certified Operators   24h 
..._output omitted_ ...
----

To get more information about the operator use *oc describe*
[subs=+quotes]
----

> oc describe packagemanifest openshift-pipelines-operator-rh -n openshift-marketplace

Reviewer: Consistency with other commands (add the `$` prompt). I'm also suggesting emphasis in the command.

```suggestion
$ *oc describe packagemanifest openshift-pipelines-operator-rh -n openshift-marketplace*
```

pachyderm-operator-rhmp                            Red Hat Marketplace   3h34m
nxiq-operator-certified                            Certified Operators   3h34m
_...output ommited..._
----

The operator has a suggested namespace *redhat-ods-operator* to be installed into. However it can be installed into any namespace an administrator chooses.

[subs=+quotes]
----
$ oc describe packagemanifest rhods-operator
_...output ommited..._
operatorframework.io/suggested-namespace:  redhat-ods-operator
_...output ommited..._
----

Unless an administrator chooses to install it into the openshift-operators namespace, the namespace has to be created first.

----
$ cat <<EOF > rhods-ns.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: redhat-ods-operator
spec: {}
EOF

$ oc create -f rhods-ns.yaml
namespace/redhat-ods-operator created
----

Within the new namespace an *Operator Group* resource has to be created.
----
$ cat <<EOF > rhods-og.yaml
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1
kind: OperatorGroup
metadata:
  name: redhat-ods-operator
  namespace: redhat-ods-operator
spec: {}
EOF

$ oc create -f rhods-og.yaml
operatorgroup.operators.coreos.com/redhat-ods-operator created
----

> Finally the operator's subscription can be created to start the installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally the operator's subscription can be created to start the installation.
```
